---
title: What Your CS Education Can't Give You Anymore
date: 2024-12-13
slug: on-college-education
description: Observations I made being back in college in seven years.
---
- Intro
	- There are many good ones that delineate important topics in the field. 
	- I am not jumping into those topics, but I want to talk about the only thing that matters, I believe. 
- I think it is the (learning) attitude
	- In 2017, when I got into this field, people said soft skill cannot be taught
	- In one conversation with my coworker, I even referred this quote "".
	- However, now I think what really matters is the attitude
	- It cannot be taught but your education and learning environment. 
- Not many students stay up all night for assignment
- It can sound super uptight and conservative to say that you should this
- People don't change their mind on, especially in your workplace and career. 
	- What you might think it is normal can be not normal, but not normal can lead to something bad. 
	- You should not take knowledge obtained by AI for granted
	- The shift will follow up eventually, but you need to adjust 

---

August 21st, 2024. It was in seven years to land on Boston Logan Airport. Leaving US for my military duty in South Korea, I never thought this return would take this much time, especially that I would get back to Boston with so many different stuffs, including a pretty decent work experience, huge responsibility, and my wife. 

(picture of Boston Logan)

Reliving college days is mystical. One of fun parts is that ... Some classes in colleges still try to prevent students from using not just AI tools but computers. 

Meanwhile, I noticed huge difference: attitude in learning. 

Having this idea brought me back to 2017 when I barely got started studying programming. People said "soft skill cannot be taught", but now that I know that it is not generally true. In some situation, you can just follow a well-written manual to bond with other coworkers and make a meaningful contribution to the organization, or be evaluated as so. I think I was super drawn to the idea of soft skills that I recall when I refer this: **Hard skills get you in, soft skills get you far**. 

https://x.com/shl/status/1394651350667907073 
// TODO: render this 

However, after years of working with those who do not have those communication skills, begrudgingly succumb to the fact that we should work with those people anyways, and having bunch of different situations that whether to have awesome soft skills is not the elephant in the room, I believe the most important aspect you should learn from your CS education is attitude for learning. It cannot be taught in your decent 50 page long onboarding doc, neither from pair programming with a 20+ YOE principle engineer in your org, nor from 10K meaningless words on your screen generated in 10 second with your crappy prompt starting with "Your job is to be my mentor to become a great software engineer...". The only place you can learn yearning for learning is a learning environment. 

// How learning attitude got me far.
My transition from education major to CS major reminds me of this epiphany.

CS education is losing it, or maybe so is the Academia. It is not because of lack of some system in education, but because of the availability of the answers, or pseudo-answers.


I believe that CS education should find a way to instigate this 

Special thanks to ..., ..., ... for reading drafts of this. 